LOCK TABLE STATEMENT
---------------------

Locks:
------

Locks are the mechanism used to prevent destructive interaction between
users accessing the same resources simultaneously.

A resource can be either table or a specific row in a table.

The locks provide high degree of data concurrency.


Concurrent User:
----------------

Multiple users using same resource at same time.
Locking system of a oracle prevent concurrent users to do destructive transactions.

Locks can be acquired at two different levels
  1. Row level lock (for specific rows)
  2. Table level lock (for entire table)

Row Level Lock
--------------

In the row lock, a row is locked exclusively so that other users cannot modify the row
until the transaction holding the lock is committed or rollback.

eg> select * from emp where empno = 788 for update of hiredate;

sql> update emp set hiredat ='19-jan-79' where empno = 7788;


Table level lock
----------------

A table level lock will protect table data thereby guranteeing dat integrity
when data is being accessed concurrently by multiple users.


A table lock can be in several modes
	1. Share lock
        2. Share Update lock
	3. Exclusive lock

Syntax:
-------
	lock table <tablename> in <share or share update or exclusive mode>;

share lock
----------
	A share lock locks the table allowing others users to only query but not
        insert, update or delete rows in a table.

eg> lock table emp in share mode;


share update lock
-----------------
	It locks rows that are to be updated in a table.
	It permits other users to concurrently query, insert, update or even lock other
	rows in the same table.
	It prevents the other users from updating the row that has been locked.

eg> lock table emp in share update mode; (scott)

scott:
-----
	sql> update emp set sal=3000 where deptno=10;
        (As scott1 cannot upate 10 but can be update 20,30)

Exclusive LOck:
---------------

When issued by one user, it allows the other user to only query but not inserted, delete or update
rows in a table.

It is almost similar to share lock but only one user can place an exclusive lock on
a table at a time, where as many users can place a share lock on the same table at 
the same time.

eg> lock table emp in exclusive mode.

Note: locks can be released by issuing either 2 rollback or commit.

DeadLock
--------
	A deadlock occurs when two users have a lock, each on a seperate object, and 
	they want to acquire a lock on the each obect.  When this happens, and first
	user has to wait for the second user to release the lock, but the second user
	will not release it until the lock on the first uses object is freed.

	At this point, both the users ae at an impasses and cannot proceed with their
	business.  In such a case, Oracle detects the deadlock automaticlly and solves
	the problem by aborting one of the two transactions.

Roles in Oracle
---------------
	A role is a named group of related privileges that can be granted to the user.

Advantages:
-----------
	Rather than assiging privileges one at a time directly to s USER, we can
	CREATE  role assign privileges to that ROLE, and then grant that role.

